We should probably point out that this is not universal,
that everybody's diet is gonna affect them differently.
For some people are fine with carbohydrates.
There's a lot of people out there that you,
a high carbohydrate diet and they have zero issues with it whatsoever. And it's,
that's one of the weirder things about people, you know,
it's that we are so variable depending upon your ancestry, you know,
what part of the world they, they evolved. Yeah.
Yeah. It's, it's fascinating to me. Cause I mean,
I'll look at folks doing complete opposite of who I am and they're,
they're doing just fine. Yeah. Um, and it's, you know,
then I'll look at some folks too that are doing the opposite of me and they're
doing just fine for a while.
And then they ultimately start noticing the same kind of things I did and then
they can clean it up. Uh, so it is kind of, yeah, I think at the end of the day,
you just gotta be kind of honest with yourself and you know,
some people I think are really, really robust <laugh> and they can,
they can hit their body with that high octane fuel carbohydrate,
like day in and day out at a high level. And it doesn't seem to bother 'em much,
but you know, other people like think just, it, it can kind of,
it's like playing with rocket fuel a little bit where, you know,
a little bit can be great and too much of it can kind of burn you up a little
bit. So.
You're saying that you started off at like 50 grams of carbohydrates a day,
the real strict cosis diet. Mm-hmm <affirmative> what did,
what did you eventually move to?
Um, it, so the way I call it is I periodize it. So like,
when I look at my year you're you can pick out a week where I'm kind of training
and then pick out a week where I'm kind of in like a recovery phase or off
season, and it looks like two completely different lifestyles.
So my first thought after kind of like working through the whole ketogenic
approach, um, cause I should add to like, um,
once I got like feeling good about that,
I started adding back speed workouts and things like that.
And I definitely noticed that I was missing kind of that last year.
Like it was a lot more difficult to go out and really throttle down.
Like I could run all day at a slow pace,
but if I decided to go out on the track and do like 400 meter repeats at like a
really fast, like a really fast pace, um, it was really hard to kind of,
to be able to do that. That's.
A common complaint. Mm-hmm <affirmative> yeah. Rob Wolf, you know, Rob Wolf.
Yep. Mm-hmm <affirmative> Rob Wolf had a similar issue.
He's gotten like very heavily into jujitsu and he was telling me that he just
can't stick to that 50 grams of carbohydrates a day. Yeah. And still have the,
the energy to go hard. Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
Does, do you know, does Rob Wolf work out more than one time a day? I.
Do not know. Um, he looks very fit though. I I'm, I'm not sure what his, uh,
what a schedule is, but I know he works out very hard and if he's doing jujitsu,
there's really, it's very difficult to jujitsu any other way than hard. Sure.
Yeah. You know, cause one thing I've always been curious about too,
and you know, like I'm not, I'm not trying to come, come on here and say like,
everyone should switch to doing what I do. I mean,
I think you should follow your own, your own se your own personal self.
And to be honest with yourself, you feel great. Do what you're doing.
If you don't then probably look to change something.
But like one thing I'm always looking at now or suspecting is that like,
it's more about the recovery between efforts than it is about the intensity
of the effort or the duration of the effort in terms of how much carbs you need
to bring back or wanna bring back. Cuz I've also had circumstances where like,
I'll do like a big workout or a race or something like that.
And then I'll go really easy for like a week.
And during that week I'll go like super strict keto. Um, cause I'm recovering,
I'm not doing anything intense. I'm not doing anything too long. Um, so that's,
that's the point in my training where I kind of say, all right,
let's get rid of the start, the fast acting fuel sources.
I don't need 'em right now and reset that whole fat adaptation thing. Um,
so you.
Feel like you, the fast acting fuel sources like carbohydrates,
you only really need them when you're pushing hard, right.
When you're really running.
Fast. Yeah. And I actually think it's,
it's when you're doubling down on those on a regular basis.
So like if you're working out really hard for like 45 minutes to an hour a day,
I think you can probably get away with almost a ketogenic or like a really low
carbohydrate approach because you're giving yourself like 23 plus hours between
sessions for your body to kind of restock LICO in stores from other areas like,
you know, from fat and proteins and things like that.
I think when you start getting into a system where you're like myself,
I'm doing two days a lot and then sometimes one of those is a speed session.
That's when I feel like I need to bring some of the carbohydrate back.
And I think it's probably just to get some of the glycogen at a little faster
rate,
cuz that is gonna replenish your glycogen stores faster as a carbohydrate than
like a fat or, or a protein probably would.
So how many grams of carbohydrates a day would you have on a daily like that?
Um.
When I'm in like peak training,
which is about 20 hours a week of running strength,
training and mobility type stuff, you know,
I'll probably let myself get up to like 15 to
25% of my intake from carbohydrate. Um.
What do you think that is in grams? Uh.
It probably did. It depends a lot on like what I actually do. Um,
cause I don't count calories very often. I,
I used to just to kind of like see what was going on and then I kind of got
intuitive with it. Uh, gram wise, you know,
it's probably anywhere from like two to 300 maybe.
And then when I'm in those phases of training,
it's really intense in terms of like just, uh, or I shouldn't say intense,
it's just really tedious in the amount of time and energy required for it. Now,
are.
You blood monitoring at that time? Are you checking your millimolar levels?
Uh, I am sometimes like when I'm like,
when I get curious about that type of stuff or I've done it in the past,
I've actually what I did originally is I got the,
the blood keto own monitor and I also got one of those Keans uh,
like it it's like this little USB thing and then you blow into it and yeah.
Is that accurate? Um, I think there's, I think there's varied results.
I think they've gotten a lot better with it. Um,
but what I did is I actually measured my blood key tone and then I would use
that and I tried to find kind of like if mine was matching what that thing would
say mm-hmm <affirmative>. So I kind of had an I,
I got it to where I kind of had an idea where certain ranges on that thing would
kind of indicate whether I was in ketosis or not. Um,
so like I very much is coming outta keto during peak training.
Like when I would, especially when I would get up to two,
300 grams of carbohydrate, I would come outta ketosis. Uh,
and I'd probably go back into ketosis throughout that, that phase. Um.
When you say go back in and come out, uh, like,
and what kind of time period are you talking about? Uh.
It,
the time period was more indicative about what I kind of ate during it to like,
if I did, if, if, if I did or I shouldn't say what I like,
how I kind of structured those two to 300 grams of carbohydrate,
like if I did like a big bolus of it in one meal,
I'd get back into ketosis a little quicker because then I wouldn't come back to
the carbohydrates again.
For a while. So would you vary in inside the day?
Yeah, mm-hmm <affirmative> yeah, like I would it like if I, and,
and here's where it got kind of interesting, I guess is I do a lot of my,
the heaviest bulk of my training in the morning.
So I typically wake up and have some like coffee with like coconut milk or heavy
whipping cream or something like that. And then, uh, you know, go for my run.
So then when I get back from a run, you know,
it might be two hours sometimes even three. And, uh, you know, at that point I,
I just slept for eight to 10 hours then, you know,
by the time I got down with my run, you know, I hadn't,
I had probably hadn't I had essentially done like a small intermittent fast for
the most part. Um, so like even when I had the higher amounts of carbohydrates,
I'd find myself going back into the keto at the end of something like that
sometimes. Um, but really it was, to me,
it wasn't necessarily a question of whether I was in ketosis or not,
cuz that really wasn't important to me. Um,
like performance is important perform. Exactly. Yeah.
And what I wanted out of this approach was, um,
I wanted to be able to rely on my body body to burn high levels of fat
when I needed it to,
but I also wanted to be Metabo flexible enough where if I needed to hit the gas
pedal, I could do that as well. Um,
and I think that's where people get a little, uh, uh,
confused or up in arms or something because there's not a whole lot of studies
that kind of look at that specifically, like, can you do that?
Or can you not do that?
Some people think it's kind of an all or nothing thing where you either get
really fat adapted or you get really carb dependent and then everything else is
kind of like, you know, this gray area that you can't really get into,
but that's not my experience. You know, my experience has been that like,
I can get like here, here's my kind of litmus test.
If I can go for like a four hour or even five hour run with no fuel,
other than water and electrolytes, then I'm fat adapted enough.
I don't need to get more fat adapted than that because I can't eat during a race
and everyone else is going to be so like,
I don't really need to get more fat adapted that from a performance standpoint.
Um, so when I get to that point, then it's like, how many,
how many carbohydrates can I bring back to kinda give me that extra nudge or
that extra fuel substrate? Um.
Have you ever tried mixing exogenous keytones with carbohydrates? Um,
not Greenfield was talking about that and he said it's like doing steroids.
He said it was incredible. Yeah. There's again, he's.
He's a maniac. He's a maniac. Yeah. There's uh, who else was it? Was it Dominic?
Dino was playing around with that stuff quite a bit too.
Or he might have helped, uh, he might have helped, uh, with the,
the creation of some of that stuff. I know there was, uh,
I'd have to look back in my emails and stuff, but I, I actually had, uh,
there was a guy who was doing a real clinical version of the exogenous keytones
and, um, he had sent me one a while back to kind of do a little test for him.
And, uh, it, it was like just this little canister of exogenous key tone.
And he wanted me to kind of check my keytones when I woke up in the morning.
Take that test it 15 minutes later. And then test again after my run.
Is that like a key.
Tone, Esther?
Yeah, I think so like super.
Potent stuff taste like Godzilla's Dick. Yeah. <laugh> yeah.
Matt brown brought some of that in it's like, woo.
Yeah. Did you test your keytones when you took it or no, I didn't. I didn't.
Have a monitor on me, but it tasted terrible, but I felt great. Yeah.
After it was over and you have to take it with, uh, glucose.
Yeah. Yeah. See, I think that's, maybe that's where I messed up, but, uh, um,
besides that, like my keytones level shot up, I woke up that morning.
I think I was at like 0.0 Millis or something like that.
I took that exogenous Keone. Um, and 15 minutes later I test,
I was at 3.7 Millis.